Domain Information Gathering
Objecive: This step collects fundamental domain and DNS information of the target. By gathering registrar details, DNS records, and IP addresses using whois, dig & nslookup , we create a foundational understanding of how the domain is hosted, its mail setup, and its network footprint.

1..WHOIS
Purpose: Retrieves the domain registration details such as registrar, creation/expiry date, owner contact info, and name servers.

Command used:

whois yahoo.com > whois.txt
Output file: whois.txt– contains all the WHOIS information for yahoo.com.

Screenshot:



Notes

Domain registered by Yahoo Assets LLC (US) using MarkMonitor.
First registered on 1995-01-18, last updated on 2024-12-18.
Domain security protections are enabled (transfer/update/delete prohibited).
DNS hosted on ns1-5.yahoo.com.
DNSSEC not enabled, which could be considered a small security gap.
2..DIG
Purpose: Queries the DNS records of yahoo.com, including A, MX, NS, TXT, and other records. Gives a snapshot of how the domain is configured.

Command used:

dig yahoo.com ANY @8.8.8.8 > dig.txt
Output file: dig.txt – contains summarized DNS records.

Screenshot:



Notes

Yahoo has many name servers → means high reliability.
We got IP addresses (A + AAAA records) → tells where yahoo.com is hosted.
We found mail servers (MX) → shows how Yahoo handles email.
TXT records → have security settings (SPF, Google/Facebook verification).
CAA records → only certain companies can give SSL certificates (secure).
3.NSLOOKUP
Purpose: Finds the IP address of the domain and the DNS server being used. Useful to verify how the domain resolves to an IP.

Command used :

nslookup yahoo.com > nslookup.txt
Output file: nslookup.txtcontains the IP address and DNS server info for yahoo.com.

Screenshot:



Notes:

Server: 192.168.153.2 → This is the DNS server your system asked for info.
Non-authoritative answer: Data came from a cache, not directly from Yahoo’s main DNS.
Addresses:
IPv4: (74.6.231.21, 74.6.143.25, etc.) → These are Yahoo’s public IPs.
IPv6: (2001:4998:...) → Same but for IPv6 network.
